GameSession: Single‑Agent Match Execution
=========================================

The ``GameSession`` component is responsible for executing **one complete
tactical match** using a **single external controller**, while delegating
all opponent behavior and turn management to the environment.

It provides the execution backbone used by ``RLRunner`` and offline
batch evaluation tools.

Purpose
-------

The primary purpose of ``GameSession`` is to:

- Execute a full match from initial state to terminal condition
- Interface a single external policy with the environment
- Collect engine‑level diagnostics
- Optionally record replay frames
- Produce a structured, reproducible result object

``GameSession`` does **not** decide game logic or learning behavior.

Single‑agent execution model
-----------------------------

A ``GameSession`` always executes a **single external agent**.

- One side of the match is controlled by a provided policy
- The opposing side is controlled internally by the environment
- No second external controller is used during execution

Opponent behavior is implemented as a **deterministic heuristic**
embedded inside the environment.

This design avoids co‑learning effects and stabilizes experimental
conditions.

Responsibilities
----------------

``GameSession`` is responsible for:

- Resetting the environment for a given scenario
- Forwarding agent actions to the environment
- Advancing the environment until terminal state
- Collecting per‑step engine diagnostics
- Recording replay frames when enabled
- Producing a structured session result

It explicitly does **not**:

- Control turn order
- Interpret END_TURN signals
- Influence opponent actions
- Modify environment rules
- Perform learning or evaluation

Turn and termination semantics
------------------------------

The environment fully controls turn resolution.

Important guarantees:

- END_TURN events do **not** terminate execution
- Only END_MATCH (`done=True`) ends the session
- Turn structure is opaque to the external policy

``GameSession`` acts purely as an execution loop until termination.

Diagnostics collection
----------------------

During execution, ``GameSession`` collects engine‑level diagnostics
via a passive diagnostics collector.

Diagnostics capture:

- Available tactical opportunities
- Actions taken or avoided
- Environmental risk signals

Diagnostics do **not** influence gameplay and are aggregated only after
the match completes.

Replay handling
---------------

When replay collection is enabled, ``GameSession`` stores replay frames
emitted by the environment.

Replay characteristics:

- Generated by the engine
- Frame‑based
- Independent of learning code
- Deterministic and replayable

Structured result
-----------------

Each execution returns a ``GameSessionResult`` object containing:

- Final match outcome
- Aggregated engine diagnostics
- Optional replay data

The result object is immutable and suitable for offline analysis.

Summary
-------

``GameSession`` provides a minimal, deterministic and single‑agent
execution harness.

By delegating all tactical dynamics and opponent behavior to the
environment, it ensures clean separation between execution,
observation and analysis.
